
# Project & Portfolio VI 

* **RESEARCH - 2.2_Complex_Sequelize**
* **Lisa Terlop**
* **June 11, 2023**

<br>

## Many-to-Many Relationships in Sequelize


* Many-to-many is a common modeling relationship between two entities.
* how do we model the many-to-many relationship between them- need to create a junction table to store the relationship between the two

<br>

## Validation & Constraints

* Model validators allow you to specify format/content/inheritance validations for each attribute of the model. Validations are automatically run on create, update and save. You can also call validate() to manually validate an instance.

* To use a custom error message instead of that provided by validator.js, use an object instead of the plain value or array of arguments

* Validations can also be defined to check the model after the field-specific validators. Model validator methods are called with the model object's context and are deemed to fail if they throw an error, otherwise pass. 

<br>

## Sequelize Aggregate Functions 

* MIN Example
In order to find the price of the cheapest item, we can use MIN clause on price column of Item table.

* MAX Example
The query for finding the price of the most expensive item is very similar to the query for finding the price of the cheapest item, just replace MIN with MAX

* COUNT Example
Using COUNT clause, we can find how many times each items have been sold. This is not the total number of item sold.

* SUM Example
If we want to get the list of best seller items, we need to sum up the value of amount column by using SUM clause


<br>

## Querying Data 

* findAll() method

* Sequelize to fetch a list of all posts that have the visible attributes set to true. Find All returns a promise that will resolve with an array of post instances that all just loop through to log to standard ou

<br>
## Reference Links
I found all of the resources to be very helpful in understanding the material. I particularly found the sequelize.org site to be very helpful as it includes a frame of reference to all of sequelize and includes validations and constraints.


**Resource 1: Title**  
[Site Address](https://www.tutorialsteacher.com/sqlserver/tables-relations)  

**Resource 2: Title**    
[Site Address](https://sequelize.org/docs/v6/core-concepts/model-querying-basics/)

**Resource 3: Title**      
[Site Address](https://youtu.be/mGPj-pCGS2c)




